docs/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

# Summary of Changes

Replace this text with a high-level summary of the changes included in this PR.

# Related Issues

Please reference here any issue #'s that are relevant to this PR, or simply enter "N/A" if this PR does not relate to any existing issues.

# Pull Request Checklist

Tick all boxes below to demonstrate that you have completed the respective task. If the item does not apply to your this PR **check it anyway** to make it apparent that there's nothing to do.

- [ ] All commits contain a DCO `Signed-off-by` line (we use the [DCO GitHub app](https://github.com/apps/dco) to enforce this);
- [ ] Updated LICENSE-3RD-PARTY.md for any added dependencies or vendored components;
- [ ] Updated documentation as needed for changed code and new or modified features;
- [ ] Added sufficient [tests](../__tests__/) so that overall code coverage is not reduced.

If you have _any_ questions to _any_ of the points above, just **submit and ask**! This checklist is here to _help_ you, not to deter you from contributing!

Pro Tip 🤓

- Read our [contribution guide](../CONTRIBUTING.md) at least once; it will save you a few review cycles!
- Your PR will likely not be reviewed until all the above boxes are checked and all automated tests have passed.

_PR template adapted from the Python attrs project._

Commit message:

docs: update pull request template (#1330)
Signed-off-by: Bryce McMath <bryce.j.mcmath@gmail.com>

docs/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

# Summary of Changes

Replace this text with a high-level summary of the changes included in this PR.

# Screenshots, videos, or gifs

Replace this text with embedded media for UI changes if they are included in this PR. If there are none, simply enter N/A

# Breaking change guide

Replace this text with any breaking changes included in this PR along with how to address them in downstream projects. If there are none, simply enter N/A

# Related Issues

Replace this text with issue #'s that are relevant to this PR. If there are none, simply enter N/A

# Pull Request Checklist

Tick all boxes below to demonstrate that you have completed the respective task. If the item does not apply to your this PR **check it anyway** to make it apparent that there's nothing to do.

- [ ] All commits contain a DCO `Signed-off-by` line (we use the [DCO GitHub app](https://github.com/apps/dco) to enforce this)
- [ ] If applicable, screenshots, gifs, or video are included for UI changes
- [ ] If applicable, breaking changes are described above along with how to address them
- [ ] Updated documentation as needed for changed code and new or modified features
- [ ] Added sufficient [tests](../packages/legacy/core/__tests__/) so that overall code coverage is not reduced

If you have _any_ questions to _any_ of the points above, just **submit and ask**! This checklist is here to _help_ you, not to deter you from contributing!

Pro Tip 🤓

- Read our [contribution guide](../CONTRIBUTING.md) at least once; it will save you a few review cycles!
- Your PR will likely not be reviewed until all the above boxes are checked and all automated checks have passed
